Adds UDN known issue (#88051)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-18-release-notes.adoc

* A regression in the behaviour of `libreswan` caused some nodes with IPsec enabled to lose communication with pods on other nodes in the same cluster. To resolve this issue, consider disabling IPsec for your cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43713[*OCPBUGS-43713*])

> * Starting in {product-title} 4.17, new clusters, by default, used `169.254.0.0/17` for IPv4 as the default masquerade subnet. However, there is a known issue in {product-title} {product-version} when attempting to create a `UserDefinedNetwork` custom resource (CR) or a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CR. This known issue disallows the creation of either CR by changing the masquerade subnet of your cluster to `169.254.169.0/29`, which was used in older versions of {product-title}. Inability to create either CR occurs after performing one of the following actions:

Reviewer: I would rather put it like below:
- There is a known issue in 4.17 which causes masquerade subnet to be set to 169.254.169.0/29 if ovnkube-node DS is removed. If masquerade subnet has been configured at day 2 by making changes to network.operator CR then it does not get reverted to 169.254.169.0/29.
- userdefinednetwork cant be created if enough masquerade IPs are not available. Setting masquerade subnet erroneously to 169,254.169.0/29 from Openshift 4.17 default masquerade subnet 169.254.0.0/17  upon ovnkube-node DS removal causes problem with Creation of UDNs. 
Note: If a cluster has been upgraded from 4.16 then masquerade subnet remains 169.254.169.0/29 for backward compatibility and masquerade subnet should be changed to a subnet with more IPs to be able to use UDN feature.

Author: Used this, but made a few changes. Thanks a lot.

+
[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Action | Consequence

| You have restarted the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set.

> | The masquerade subnet is reverted to `169.254.169.0/29`, which does not support `UserDefinedNetwork` or `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CRs.

Reviewer: there should not be any problem with net-attach-def . 2 masquerade IP gets allocated per UDN and smaller subnet causes issue as it runs out of IPs.

Author: got it.

| You have deleted the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set.
| The masquerade subnet is reverted to `169.254.169.0/29`, which does not support `UserDefinedNetwork` or `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CRs. Additionally, OVN-Kubernetes pods crash and remain in a `CrashLoopBackOff` state.
|===
+

> As a temporary workaround, you can delete the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` or `UserDefinedNetwork` CR and then restart all OVN-Kubernetes nodes by running the following command:

Reviewer: 1. OVN-Kubernetes nodes --> ovnkube-node
2. UDN removal should cause net-attach-def to be removed. standalone net-attach-def can still be there.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete ovnkube-node -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes 
----
+

> The nodes automatically restart and the masquerade subnet is set to `169.254.0.0/17` for IPv4. As a result, `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` or `UserDefinedNetwork` CRs can be created.

Reviewer: nodes  --> ovnkube-node PODs.

Author: Fixed.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Do not delete the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set when deleting OVN-Kubernetes nodes. This reverts the masquerade subnet to `169.254.169.0/29`.

Reviewer: OVN-Kubernetes nodes --> ovnkube-node PODs

Author: Fixed.

* A regression in the behaviour of `libreswan` caused some nodes with IPsec enabled to lose communication with pods on other nodes in the same cluster. To resolve this issue, consider disabling IPsec for your cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43713[*OCPBUGS-43713*])

* There is a known issue in {product-title} {product-version} which causes the cluster's masquerade subnet to be set to `169.254.169.0/29` if the `ovnkube-node` daemon set is deleted. When the masquerade subnet is set to `169.254.169.0/29`, `UserDefinedNetwork` custom resources (CRs) cannot be created.
+
[NOTE]
====

> * If your masquerade subnet has been configured at Day 2 by making changes to the `network.operator` CR, it will not be reverted to `169.254.169.0/29`.

Reviewer 2: @stevsmit Do we have affirmative info on this one? I have not tested with Day 2  configuration. Will run a test and confirm.

* If a cluster has been upgraded from {product-title} 4.16, the masquerade subnet remains `169.254.169.0/29` for backward compatibility. The masquerade subnet should be changed to a subnet with more IPs, for example, `169.254.0.0/17`, to use the user-defined networks feature.
====
+
This known issue occurs after performing one of the following actions:
+
[cols="2", options="header"]
|===
| Action | Consequence

> | You have restarted the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set.

Reviewer: OVN-Kubernetes daemon set -> ovnkube-node daemonset

Author: Fixed.

| The masquerade subnet is reverted to `169.254.169.0/29`, which does not support `UserDefinedNetwork` CRs.

> | You have deleted the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set.

Reviewer: OVN-Kubernetes daemon set -> ovnkube-node daemonset

Author: Fixed.

> | The masquerade subnet is reverted to `169.254.169.0/29`, which does not support `UserDefinedNetwork` CRs. Additionally, OVN-Kubernetes pods crash and remain in a `CrashLoopBackOff` state.

Reviewer: OVN-Kubernetes pods crash - ovnkube-node pods crash

Author: Fixed.

|===
+
As a temporary workaround, you can delete the `UserDefinedNetwork` CR and then restart all `ovnkube-node` pods by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc delete ovnkube-node -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes 

Reviewer: The command is wrongly mentioned here. Correct command could be below:
$ oc delete pod -l app=ovnkube-node -n openshift-ovn-kubernetes

Author: Fixed.

----
+

> The `ovnkube-node` pods automatically restart and the masquerade subnet is set to `169.254.0.0/17` for IPv4. As a result, `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` or `UserDefinedNetwork` CRs can be created.

Reviewer 2: Should it be **set** to 169.254.0.0/17 ? Should it be , it is left unchanged.

Reviewer: removing UDNs and restarting all ovnkube-node PODs would help in stabilizing ovnkube-node PODs. In other words ovnkube-node POD stops crash looping upon applying the workaround. However masquerade subnet remains at 169.254.169.0/29 and masquerade subnet must be changed to a bigger subnet to be able to use UDNs.

Author: @arghosh93 That sounds ok to me, but we're not telling people to change to a bigger subnet in this known issue as part of the workaround (I was under the impression that removing UDNs and restarting OVNK pods updated to the NEW masquerade subnet). Should we link to https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/configure-ovn-kubernetes-subnets.html#nw-ovn-k-day-2-masq-subnet_configure-ovn-kubernetes-subnets? 

Otherwise, we're not providing a workaround--just calling out the known issue.

Reviewer: yes, we should ask customer to enlarge masquerade subnet if they hit the issue. makes sense to me. Thanks @stevsmit .

Author: @arghosh93 Done. Thanks.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Do not delete the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set when deleting `ovnkube-node` pods. This reverts the masquerade subnet to `169.254.169.0/29`.

Reviewer 3: Is this accurate / more clear?
```suggestion
Do not delete the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set when deleting `ovnkube-node` pods. Doing so reverts the masquerade subnet to `169.254.169.0/29`.
```

> Do not delete the OVN-Kubernetes daemon set when deleting `ovnkube-node` pods. Doing so reverts the masquerade subnet to `169.254.169.0/29`.

Reviewer 2: Should we say 'revert' here? It is set to /29.  Reverting would mean it was original value to which it was earlier set.

Author: @asood-rh is "sets" preferable?

====
+

> This issue will be fixed in a future version of {product-title}. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49662[*OCPBUGS-49662*])

Reviewer 3: Wondering about the inclusion of this sentence per https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#statements-about-the-future.

Author: I always felt like "in a future version" was vague enough to avoid that rule, but maybe I should just remove it altogether to be safe.
